---
layout: post
title:  Redesign to the Max
---

If you haven’t noticed already, this site got a drastic face lift recently. For the first time in a while, I made sure to mock up the entire site before starting to mess with the mark up. Weapon of choice was the GIMP (as per usual) and the process was fairly painless. Just to restate this for all the hates, you can actually make graphics in the GIMP. Just because you don’t know how to use the application, doesn’t mean other people don’t. The same holds true for any piece of software, but for whatever reason it comes up very often in the Photoshop versus the GIMP debate. Sadly, I’ve let my Photoshop skills fade over the years, but have also been able to acquire a decent skill set in the GIMP. To get back on topic, yeah, the site’s been revamped and no longer looks like a cheap rip off of Jon Gruber’s Daring Fireball website. There will be more updates in the coming weeks / months, and perhaps a decent amount of tweaking to the actual design just because I’m not 100% satisfied with the new header. I’ve been partially swayed because it was described as “gay” (twice) by [Daniel Jabbour](http://zchicken.com/) (not that there’s anything wrong with that… but I can see his point) as well as “very 90s” by [Dean Jones](http://deanproxy.com/) (I can see that as well, scan lines in any capacity can do that). Oh, I didn’t mention, the site looks like total ass in Internet Explorer 6… that was on purpose. Eventually I’ll get around to doing something special for the IE6 users out there (like a redirect to the goatse man, or simply stripping all of the CSS from the page). Special thanks to my friend Geoff from [Plan8 Studios](http://geoff.plan8studios.com/) for helping out with some CSS questions I had.
